# Natural antihistamines

[Source](https://supplements.selfdecode.com/blog/natural-antihistamines/)

Mast cells use an enzyme called histidine decarboxylase (HDC) to make histamine out of the amino acid histidine. They then release histamine in response to a host of different triggers, including some foods, alcohol, insect bites, and more.

Many natural compounds are being investigated for their potential to interrupt this process, either by inhibiting HDC or stabilizing mast cells and preventing them from releasing histamine. In this post, we will explore these natural antihistamines so you can find the right one for you.

## Possibly effective ##

**Forskolin**: Forskolin is a compound extracted from a member of the mint
family called Coleus forskohlii. It is most often used to promote weight loss,
but it is also great for preventing asthma. It stabilizes mast cells and relaxes
muscles in the lungs comparably to two common asthma drugs, sodium cromoglycate
and beclomethasone.

**Quercetin**: Quercetin is a plant flavonoid and antioxidant. It is recognized
as one of the best natural antihistamines out there. In one human trial,
quercetin even outperformed Cromolyn, a mast cell-stabilizing drug; quercetin
was more effective for prevention, while Cromolyn worked more quickly once the
histamine reaction had already started.

**Astragalus**: Astragalus is a medicinal plant also known as milk vetch. Its
active compound astragalin is a powerful antioxidant that can stabilize mast
cells in the intestines and nasal passages, so it may be worth a try for
histamine problems in the gut and nose. In a study of 48 adults, astragalus
reduced the symptoms of allergic rhinitis. The authors did not specifically test
the histamine levels of the patients, but they compared the effect of the
astragalus supplement to the effect of a non-sedating antihistamine and found
them very similar.

## Insufficient Evidence to Recommend ##

The substances and supplements in this section have each produced positive
results in at least one human trial, but these studies have been very small,
poorly designed, or contradictory in some way, and more research is required to
confirm their benefit. Talk to your doctor before starting any new supplement.

**Vitamin C**: In one study, 1 g of vitamin C directly decreased histamine in
all 11 volunteers that it was given to; as vitamin C levels went back down,
histamine levels increased. Oral doses can generally only get your blood vitamin
C level up to 70-120 micromol/L; to this end, there’s not much of a difference
between 400 mg and 2.5 g of vitamin C supplements per day.

**B. longum**: People with histamine intolerance tend to have fewer bacteria of
the Bifidobacteriaceae family than healthy controls, suggesting a role for these
bacteria in healthy histamine metabolism in humans. One species in this family,
Bifidobacterium longum, effectively suppresses allergic reactions in rats; it
decreases expression of the H1R and HDC genes, which code for histamine receptor
1 and the histamine-producing enzyme histidine decarboxylase, respectively. A
blend including B. longum has effectively reduced histamine in human subjects
[15, 16].

**B. infantis**: Bifidobacterium longum ssp. infantis was previously thought to
be a separate species from B. longum. This subspecies is sometimes included in
probiotic blends that have effectively reduced histamine in human subjects.

**Erythropoietin**: Erythropoietin (EPO) is a hormone that stimulates red blood
cell production, also called erythropoiesis. In a clinical trial of people with
kidney disease, 8 out of 10 experienced a significant reduction of histamine and
improvement in their itching symptoms during EPO therapy. Histamine levels
increased again when the patients stopped EPO.

**Pancreatic Enzymes**: According to one human study, supplementing with
pancreatic enzymes may reduce histamine levels and improve the symptoms of
histamine intolerance; the mechanism of this effect is unknown, and it has only
been observed in a single human trial. We recommend against using
pancreatic enzymes without a doctor’s recommendation.

**Methylxanthines**: The methylxanthines are a group of related compounds that
include caffeine, theobromine, and theophylline. Xanthine occurs naturally in
the human body, while the methylxanthines, which stabilize mast cells, are under
investigation as potential asthma treatments. Human trials on theophylline found
that it was successfully absorbed into the bloodstream and opened up the airways
of asthmatic patients; the authors attributed this effect to the inhibition or
stabilization of mast cells. Dietary sources of methylxanthines include
coffee, tea, chocolate, maté, and guarana. You can drink coffee, eat chocolate,
or supplement with theobromine, but attempting to supplement with theophylline
is not recommended, as adverse cardiac effects are possible.
Note, however, that chocolate also contains some histamine, and researchers
suspect that it may encourage histamine release. The net effect of cocoa is
unknown; we recommend that you test your own individual response and see what it
does for you. Note, also, that organic chocolate contains fewer biogenic amines
than non-organic chocolate. 

## Animal & Cell Studies (Lacking Evidence) ##

No clinical evidence supports the approaches listed below to prevent or treat
histamine reactions. Below is a summary of the existing animal and cell-based
research, which should guide further investigational efforts. However, the
studies listed below should not be interpreted as supportive of any health
benefit.

**Fisetin**: Fisetin is a flavonoid pigment found in strawberries and apples.
This compound reduces histamine release by preventing IgE from binding to and
activating mast cells. It’s a good choice if you suffer from allergies. Plus, it
may promote longevity.

**Luteolin**: Luteolin is a flavonoid found in celery, parsley, and broccoli. It
stabilizes mast cells and suppresses inflammation in the lungs and nose, which
makes it another good choice for asthma and seasonal allergies.

**Apigenin**: Apigenin is a common anti-inflammatory flavonoid found in parsley,
grapes, and apples. It prevents IgE from binding to and activating mast cells
and thereby prevents histamine release.

**EGCG**: Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) is a polyphenol found mainly in green
tea. Besides stabilizing mast cells, EGCG has the added benefit of reducing the
number of mast cells present at any time. EGCG also inactivates
histidine decarboxylase (HDC), the enzyme that makes histamine. Finally, it
prevents mast cells from dividing and traveling out of the bloodstream and into
other tissues.

**Kaempferol**: Kaempferol is a polyphenol found in cruciferous vegetables,
Delphinium plants, witch hazel, and grapefruit. Like many other polyphenols on
this list, it prevents mast cells from releasing histamine.

**Myricetin**: Myricetin is a polyphenol common in berries, teas, wines, and
many vegetables. It also stabilizes mast cells and more broadly prevents
inflammation and excessive blood clotting.

**Rutin**: Rutin is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory flavonoid found in
large quantities in buckwheat, apples, and passion flower. It stabilizes mast
cells, reduces inflammation, and strengthens blood vessels.

**Theanine**: Theanine is an amino acid found most abundantly in green and black
tea and some fungi. Unlike most chemicals, it can cross the blood-brain barrier
and act directly on the brain, where it increases serotonin, dopamine, and GABA
levels in humans. In animals, theanine has also been found to stabilize mast
cells and prevent histamine release, but this effect has not been investigated
in humans yet.

**Naringenin**: A bitter compound found in grapefruit, naringenin inhibited
histidine decarboxylase and prevented histamine from being formed in cells.
Naringenin also has broader anti-inflammatory effects that are being
investigated for their potential to help prevent liver damage and metabolic
syndrome.

**Curcumin**: Curcumin, a yellow compound found in turmeric, is one of the
strongest plant-based anti-inflammatories. It suppresses an overactive immune
system, which makes it a great supplement to fight allergies and autoimmunity;
specifically, it prevents mast cells from releasing histamine. In a
mouse study, curcumin reduced the activity of diamine oxidase (DAO), the enzyme
that breaks down histamine in the blood. However, in this case, lower DAO in the
blood might simply mean that cells in the intestinal lining were exposed to less
histamine and, thus, needed to release less DAO.

**Reishi**: Reishi is a fan-shaped mushroom that is believed by some to enhance
the immune response. In cell and animal studies, it has shown some promise in
preventing mast cells from releasing histamine, but these effects have not
translated to any reliable evidence in humans.

**Chinese Skullcap**: The roots of the Chinese skullcap, a plant from the mint
family, are important in traditional Chinese medicine. This plant’s active
compounds significantly reduced histamine release in rat studies.

**Eleuthero**: Eleuthero, also known as Siberian ginseng, is a staple of
traditional medicine in the Far East. In rats, an extract of eleuthero reduces
mast cell activity and prevents histamine release in cell and animal studies
[59, 60, 61].

**Tulsi**: Tulsi, otherwise known as holy basil, is an aromatic herb best known
in Ayurvedic medicine as a tonic for stress and inflammation. In rats, tulsi
seed oil blocked histamine release from mast cells.

**Mucuna**: Mucuna pruriens, also known as velvet bean, is a natural source of
the dopamine precursor L-DOPA, a strong inhibitor of histidine decarboxylase
(HDC) in cell studies. It is unclear whether mucuna supplements would act as
antihistamines in either animals or humans.

**Vitamin B6**: Vitamin B6 supports DAO production, but it also increases
histidine decarboxylase (HDC), and may, therefore, increase total histamine
production. Generally speaking, this vitamin is required for a healthy histamine
metabolism. You may want to talk to your doctor about whether you might be
deficient in B6.

**L. plantarum**: Some strains of Lactobacillus plantarum degrade biogenic
amines, including histamine, in the gut. However, this species more effectively
degrades putrescine and tyramine.

**Palmitoylethanolamide**: Palmitoylethanolamide, or PEA, is a fatty acid
already found in your body. PEA is best known for its potential as a natural
painkiller, but it also prevents histamine release from mast cells. It may be
especially good for eczema and skin allergies.

**SAM-e**: S-adenosyl-L-methionine, also known as SAM-e, is a compound that
naturally occurs in your body and which donates methyl groups during methylation
processes. Histamine N-methyltransferase (HMNT) inactivates histamine by
methylating it; SAM-e might help HMNT work more efficiently. According
to some studies, SAM-e supplementation does not increase histamine breakdown if
the body already has sufficient SAM-e. However, many of these are decades-old
mouse studies; we haven’t been able to find recent human studies to clearly
answer the question. Methionine also strongly inhibits histidine
decarboxylase (HDC), so SAM-e may prevent new histamine from being formed.

**Carnosine**: Carnosine is a naturally-occurring compound made from the amino
acids beta-alanine and histidine. It is abundant in high-quality meat and
inhibits histidine decarboxylase, thereby preventing new histamine from being
formed, in cell studies. In pigs, however, carnosine inhibits diamine
oxidase, which breaks histamine down in the gut. The net effect of carnosine on
histamine in the human body is unknown; there are better antihistamine choices
on this list.

**NAC**: N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) is an amino acid supplement and a strong
antioxidant. In one cell study, it strongly inhibited histidine decarboxylase,
the enzyme that makes histamine. But in other cell-based studies, it increased
histamine release; this may explain some of NAC’s side effects. NAC is a
powerful and healthy supplement that you should consider if you have issues with
oxidative stress as well as histamine, but it probably isn’t the best option
solely for histamine intolerance.

**Valine**: Valine is an essential amino acid, meaning that we cannot make our
own and therefore need to consume it in our diets. Valine weakly inhibits
histidine decarboxylase (HDC) in cell studies, though we don’t know its role in
histamine metabolism in animals or humans. It’s important to make sure you get
plenty in your diet; you can get valine from most foods, including meat, grains,
vegetables, and milk and dairy products.