<!--
source: GPT-4o
tags: components
-->

# Receptors

Receptors are specialized protein molecules located on the surface of or within
cells, serving as crucial components for cellular communication and signal
transduction. They bind to specific molecules such as hormones,
neurotransmitters, or other signaling molecules, triggering a cascade of
biological responses essential for maintaining physiological processes.

There are various types of receptors, each with distinct functions. Cell surface
receptors, such as [G-protein-coupled receptors
(GPCRs)](../g-protein-coupled-receptors/) and [receptor tyrosine kinases
(RTKs)](../receptor-tyrosine-kinases/), are embedded in the plasma membrane.
GPCRs, the largest family of receptors, mediate a wide range of cellular
responses by activating intracellular G-proteins. RTKs, on the other hand, are
involved in regulating cell growth, differentiation, and metabolism by
phosphorylating tyrosine residues on themselves and other proteins upon ligand
binding.

Intracellular receptors, such as steroid hormone receptors, reside within the
cell and interact with lipophilic molecules that can cross the cell membrane.
Upon binding to their ligands, these receptors typically function as
transcription factors, directly influencing gene expression and thereby
modulating cellular activity.

Receptors play a fundamental role in the body's ability to respond to external
and internal stimuli. Dysregulation of receptor function can lead to various
diseases, including cancer, diabetes, and autoimmune disorders. Consequently,
many therapeutic drugs are designed to target specific receptors, aiming to
correct or modify their activity to treat diseases effectively.
