[//]: # (
source: jph)
tags: comments)

# What led to your diagnosis?

"It felt like joint and muscle aches, extreme brain fog, and intense lethargy. A
flu without the respiratory side effects. I also got what I thought was “acne”
tiny little bumps on my cheeks that looked like acne but would go away after 24
hours. Took me a while to realize that was hives because they totally just
looked like under the skin acne just in my cheeks. I’d get mild itch on my neck
or stomach when I ate some foods. So mild I didn’t clock it as an allergic
reaction for a while."

"I had idiopathic anaphylaxis; urticaria, random reactions to
foods/smells/heat/cold/pressure, POTS, bone/joint pain, chronic inflammation,
inability to heal well from illness or injury, absorption issues (low iron, low
essential vitamins, low nutrients), reactions to drugs, brain fog, speech
issues, small bowel obstruction."

"I was misdiagnosed with fibromyalgia, but was going through menopause, so of
course Drs tended to blame everything on that. No one really believed me about
my strange symptoms, allergies and intolerances until I had a 10 day migraine
that landed me in the ER twice because the narcotic and nsaid meds they gave me
made it worse, and then I had anaphylaxis to prednisone and corticosteroids.
When my pain, headaches, dizziness and tachycardia improved with benadryl and
cetirizine I knew it was a mast cell/histimine issue."

"I was misdiagnosed with adrenal insufficiency. I was on steroids for almost 7
years— but was never stable. Now I know I was having anaphylactic reactions—
severe low blood pressure, passing out, vomiting and diarrhea. I have a long
history with chronic nausea, headaches, fatigue, I constantly felt like I was on
fire, my skin is always pink or red, chronic nasal congestion, my gums will
swell a bit and literally throb, random GI issues, abdominal pain. My exercise
tolerance was great some days… and other days I would pass out a few minutes
into it. Heat intolerance… And then I started getting hives multiple times a
week."

"Constant allergic reactions , scent triggers, wasn't officially diagnosed until
2017. Dr did a lot of research. I've had 2 bone marrow biopsies done, plus a
upper endoscopy done last year . Which found massive amounts of mast cells."

"Chronic Idiopathic Ana and other allergy like symptoms combined with IgG4,
Alopecia, Vitiligo. So I didn't quite fit into 1 box."

"Back in 2021 I ate two oranges at night after 10 minutes my heartbeat escalated
I couldn't breathe I was rushed to ER,they did all test it was negative
MRI,scan,endoscopy, blood test, urinalysis, all were negative the doctor said
they can't do anything, so I had to Google then I learned about mast cells,
joined mast cell groups, and had to go low histamine diet."

"Officially diagnosed via biopsy during upper endoscopy. I failed most of the blood work stuff which are pretty unreliable."

"I kept having severe runny nose, diarrhea and Gerd, burning watery eyes and
random hives and rashes. Allergy tests said I had no allergies at all. Tryptase
levels pretty high . Lots of labs and bone marrow biopsy said I did not have
mastocytosis, so my doctor diagnosed me with MCAS. Later I found out I have HaTS
too."

"Every journey looks different and every practitioner is different. Try using mast cell stabilizers and a low histamine diet and see if your symptoms improve."

