# Personal story by Sue G

TODO

I was reacting to my previously safe water and all foods so I went a week with
nothing at home until they finally started treating me in the emergency room.
When the emergency room treatments weren’t helping they admitted me to the
hospital for IV hydration therapy. 

I was put on 0.9% normal saline IV, was given IV diphenhydramine 50 mg and I got
120 mg of methylprednisolone. This was given around the clock while my system
settled down and it was at that point that a specialist in immunology stepped in
and ordered cromolyn sodium, famotidine and fexofenadine. 

I was in the hospital for a total of two weeks on all of these medications while
I was transitioned to the compounded meds so that they knew I could tolerate
them before leaving for home. We also added a single food while I was there so
they knew that I could tolerate both meds and eating again. 

I started with a safe organic russet potato and now that I’m home a couple
months I’ve added back my previously safe brand of chicken, I’ve added a sweet
potato, broccoli, apples, blueberries, and rice. 

I had problems tolerating brand name medication fillers, so I got a compounding
pharmacy to give me just the medications in a capsule without any fillers. We
found out I was reacting to the fillers as well as the inactive ingredients many
of which are corn derived- I have a corn allergy. 

I’m now back to eating multiple foods again nearly 3 months later and tolerating
a specific brand of spring water which has no added minerals and is in a ‘safe
for me’ container. 

I’m wishing you the best because I know what this is like and how difficult it
is having just recently been through it, but you can do it. I’m now back to
feeling extremely optimistic. The Cromolyn has been my miracle.

Sometimes we have to be human guinea pigs just to try to figure out how to get
better. I’m sure many of you all have tried to eat something while ingesting it
in the parking lot of the emergency room waiting for a reaction much like I
have. 

It’s so scary and when I lost the ability to eat or drink anything and started
reacting even to my medications, I knew that something had to change. I started
doing a lot of research. 

I learned that many people once they take the extra fillers and inactive
ingredients out of their compounded meds and request that it’s filled with
medication only that they are able to tolerate meds again.
