# MCAS + alprazolam + lorazepam + personal story

TODO

[Source](https://www.reddit.com/r/MCAS/comments/uxn2r1/anyone_with_benzo_experience/)

I started using alprazolam way before I knew what was wrong with me; I got it
for flight anxiety and then because I can't tolerate opioids I used it when I
started having serious pain that kept me from even being able to move. I had
strict rules about how frequently I took it (max 3x per week, etc) so I didn't
become dependent on it.

Years of this and never knowing why it was the difference between being stuck in
bed and out in the world! I eventually got diagnosed with MCAS and was like
...ohhhhhhhhh

After talking with my new doctor in 2020 he was encouraging me to take it more
frequently, and I was really hesitant because I didn't want to become dependent
and didn't want reduced effectiveness, as well as being afraid of all the
"dementia" stuff.

He was like ok I hear you but, here's a few things to think about... Some
medications, you may have to take every day of your life in order to have a
life, period. And, are you more worried about potential dementia in a potential
future, or are you more concerned about the cognitive issues you have right now
when you're not taking it?

Considering at that point in my life I was contemplating the unaliving option, I
agreed to try it but I didn't think I wanted to ruin alprazolam (very fast but
short acting, I'd have to take a lot). He prescribed lorazepam instead at a VERY
low dose.

It took me a long time to actually start taking it on a daily basis as
prescribed because I was scared. I finally did, and found that while it was not
as powerful as alprazolam, having it all the time evened out my days and I
didn't have as much need for alprazolam at all. I've actually amassed a dragon
hoard's worth of alprazolam because I've reduced my usage of it so dramatically.

On occasion I've forgotten to take my lorazepam and while I feel slightly less
well, I don't feel any of the withdrawal side effects I've heard about, likely
because of the switch to lorazepam which is slower and longer acting and I take
a much lower dose (low as in they don't make pills that dose!).

I still use alprazolam as a rescue med when I've gotten myself into a mast cell
mess.

I think if I didn't also have post exertional neuroimmune exhaustion and fear of
long COVID, I would be in decent enough shape to go out and about in the world a
lot more often.

There's definitely risks to these drugs. But at that point in my life, the risk
was way outweighed by the benefit.

I believe that if I needed to taper off these medications it would take me at
least a year if not more, but if I ever got to the point where I didn't need
them, I'd be perfectly happy to do that difficult work.

If I have dementia in the future, in all honesty it will still be worth it; I
was essentially having dementia anyway already and these drugs have given me SO
MANY days back, and I used them in meaningful ways. I do not regret the gift of
the time I used to live a good life, even if someday in the future I have to pay
a steep price. In reality I was heading straight into dying of anaphylaxis and
didn't even know it, so this has likely saved my life a few times already.

I hope I don't have to pay the piper in that way, but the time I have now with
the people I love and the hobbies I can do only because of these meds? It's
worth it.

But that's a calculation everyone will have to make for themselves based on
their current circumstances. I hope you can find something else that helps you
more first.
