# MRI reactions quotations

"Vibrations can cause a MCAS reaction. So can stress or anxiety."

"I was twitching all over and shaking and burning too! They just told me I was
“hyper sensitive to the magnets and that just happens to some people.” I
literally felt my intestines twitching and hot and I felt very dizzy and
disoriented too but after some rest I felt better next day."

"In a head MRI with no contrast, my throat swelled."

"I react to bandages and sticky electrodes. I also reacted to the cleansing
agent they used. It burned for 4 days and looked like I had poured boiling water
on me."

"Do you wear mascara? That can contain metal, if not washed off correctly that may have reacted."

"I had an MRI of my left shoulder, no contrast. It felt like a wave of fire 3
separate times when they did the 3 different scans or whatever. Every doctor I
have ever told had no clue what I was talking about! But literally felt a wave
of fire, but only in the spot being scanned."

"The last few MRI's have caused a burning sensation, mostly where the scan is
taking place, like I’m cooking from the inside out. The last time it got so hot
that the automatic cooling fan in the machine kicked on. The tech said he’d
never seen that happen before. No one has offered an explanation."

"It could be a reaction to cleaning chemicals, or to the staff wearing fragrances."

I reacted during an MRI of my brain in a higher energy machine. It caused my
brain to burn. I was dizzy and confused and headachy and sick for days after. It
was scary."

my eyes burn and the skin around my eyes from cellphones and laptop and
microwaveoens. just had lowerback mri but the reaction game after. i passed out
vomitted and burning on my chest... but there were some people whit lot of
freqrances so im not sure what whas what.

"I totally reacted but it was flushing, tremors, and nausea. I was in an MRI
with no contrast. I'm not claustrophobic. Just the vibes."

"I seriously think we should report this as a phenomenon to a radiology
association. There are newer MRI machines that use more energy and a stronger
vibration and they are known to generate some heat in some tests with some
people. Maybe we as a population are more at risk of this and getting it more
severely and then a warning should be given and some mitigation measures such as
encouragement to stop the test if/when noticed/detected. Also is it the mast
cells being activated or is it that we are poorer detoxifiers and have a
slightly higher heavy metal load in our bodies from accumulation that is making
us more vulnerable to this effect? Or both? We need to report this so it is
taken seriously."

"Yes. I got the twitching. It could be the vibration from the machine. That is a
known MCAS trigger. I also wondered if it’s from the magnetic field interference
with the body’s own magnetic field."


"I always feel sick and get a racing heartbeat, even without contrast. I would
guess that it's the vibration. You could have reacted to something else in the
room like products the techs used, hand sanitizer, or whatever they cleaned the
table with."

"I would think vapor from cleaners. They wipe the machine down. The gown, pillow
and sheet you lie on have been bleached and sanitized. I break out in a hospital
from the linens. I take my own."
