# Breast implant/explant quotations

"I had mine for 15 years and was literally given a few months to live due to
severe unresolved cardiac, GI, and neurological issues. I asked if my implants
could have anything to do with my declining health and although western medicine
says implants are “safe”, My cardiologist told me at that point…I could either
be buried with implants or “possibly” live without them. I took the chance and
got them removed and it was immediate that we started to see improvement in my
health. My cardiologist is now a big advocate for Breast Implant Illness based
on my recovery. It’s been 5 years and although I’m still struggling with various
health issues, I can’t deny the incredible healing that took place in my body
once they were removed!"

"I just had mine explanted 10 days ago. Years of all MCAS and dozen other issues
finally resolved. No set of boobs is worth my health. I can say the day after
surgery my inflammation was noticeable down, and each day I’m seeing other
health issues disappear!"

"Implants need to be removed in a particular way to see benefits. Often surgeons
leave too much tissue and tiny particles from the implants are still there."


"I had severe breast implant illness after having my implants for 23 years.
Although I didn’t know that is what was wrong with me until I was severely sick
for 5 years. I got them out and got
90% better. Breast implants were my first MCAS trigger."

"I had planned for 13 years and got them out two years ago because of systemic
inflammation and absolutely feeling horrible. September will be two years and I
feel so much better. I dropped 25 pounds and my hormones are now balanced.

"At year 15 I got extremely sick. Took me 5 years to figure out I have MCAS. I
removed them and got way better after but the MCAS was permanent."

"I had them for 16 years. I didn’t realize just how sick they were making me
until I had them removed."
